# AI Policy

I'm of the opinion that student use of AI tools will lead to less effective
learning. I think that learning to program is a skill that requires practice,
and that practice requires a certain amount of getting stuck and working to get
yourself unstuck. Think about learning to ride a bike. You could watch however
many thousands of hours of bike-riding video tutorials you want, but you'll
never really learn to ride a bike until you actually get on one. It's not a
perfect analogy, but I think using AI tools is a bit like watching a video of
someone else biking.

Maybe a better analogy is the calculator. It's a super useful tool, but if you
always have access to one, then you're probably not going to get good at doing
mental math. It's a two-sided coin: plenty of great mathematicians use
calculators, but using a calculator at the wrong times in the learning process
will make it hard to get comfortable doing math.

**I'm strongly encouraging you to steer clear of AI tools** for your work in
this class. While I won't impose a total ban on AI, I will be raising my
expectations for the understanding that students have of the code they write and
present. Note that **AI tools which are built in to your coding environment,
like Replit AI, are banned**, and must be disabled in order to receive credit
for classwork.

There were times last year when students wrote and presented code that they did
not understand, either because of ineffective collaboration with classmates or
poor use of outside resources, including AI. Learning to use resources --
whether they be your peers, tutorials, documentation, or AI tools -- in a way
that furthers your learning is an important part of becoming an effective
programmer. I think that using AI as a learning tool, rather than a
give-me-the-answer tool, is a particularly hard for new software developers to
pull off. I hope that this new guidance will promote deeper understanding of our
subject while preparing students for real-world software work.
